# Recommender_Project
Collaborative filtering has two approaches memory and model based. 
Model based approach: Alternating Least Squares (ALS) matrix factorisation attempts to estimate the ratings matrix R as the product of two lower-rank matrices, X and Y, i.e. X * Yt = R. Typically these approximations are called ‘factor’ matrices. The general approach is iterative. During each iteration, one of the factor matrices is held constant, while the other is solved for using least squares. The newly-solved factor matrix is then held constant while solving for the other factor matrix.
Memory based: Neighbourhood approaches are most effective at detecting very localized relationships (neighbours), ignoring other users. 
•	User-based Filtering: To recommend items to user u1 in the user-user based neighborhood approach first a set of users whose likes and dislikes similar to the useru1 is found using a similarity metrics which captures the intuition that sim(u1, u2) >sim(u1, u3) where user u1 and u2 are similar and user u1 and u3 are dissimilar. similar user is called the neighbourhood of user u1.
•	Item-based Filtering: To recommend items to user u1 in the item-item based neighborhood approach the similarity between items liked by the user andother items are calculated.
Along with these approaches we have also implemented a customized Mood-Based Movie Recommendation System. A Python-based movie recommendation system that implemented text-retrieval techniques and Graphical User Interface. One special thing about this system is that its recommendations were tailored around users emotion of the moment.
